Cream puffs
We’ll start with the pastry cream, since it needs to chill before piping. You’ll need:

Egg yolks. We’ll be using just the egg yolks today. I provide a few options for using up your egg whites below.
Cornstarch. This thickens our pastry cream and gives it a velvety texture.
Milk and cream. I like to use whole milk, but really any kind will work. Double cream or whipping cream will work instead of heavy cream. Alternatively, you can just use 2 cups of half and half instead of the milk and cream.
Vanilla. You can use real vanilla beans or vanilla extract; I provide instructions for how to use both below.
Choux (pronounced “shoo”) pastry may sound fancy but it’s actually very simple to make. You need just a few humble ingredients:

Flour. Regular, all-purpose flour will work just fine here.
Butter. Use unsalted butter and make sure it’s cut into tablespoon-sized pieces before adding it.
Eggs. Make sure yours are at room temperature before you add them. Forgot to set yours out? Check out my how to quickly bring eggs to room temperature post for a helpful trick!
Water and salt. For moisture and flavor.

Since first sharing my cream puff recipe, I have slightly modified my pastry cream method to make it simpler. The version that I share in the video and in the post is the original method that I have used for years, but if you’re looking for a shortcut version, you can make a single batch of my new pastry cream, which I’ve linked to in the recipe card.

Simmer and cool – Cook cream, milk, ⅓ cup sugar, vanilla bean (if using) and salt over medium heat until the sugar dissolves and the mixture comes to a simmer. Remove from heat and let cool for 10 minutes.
Combine eggs and sugar – In a separate bowl, vigorously whisk together the egg yolks and remaining sugar until the sugar starts to dissolve.
Temper the eggs – Whisk cornstarch into the egg mixture, then slowly drizzle about ⅓ cup of the cream mixture in while whisking constantly.
Add the cream – Slowly drizzle in the remaining cream mixture while whisking constantly, then return the pot to the stove and cook over medium heat until the pastry cream thickens.
Strain – Pour the cream through a fine mesh strainer and add the butter one tablespoon at a time. Stir in the vanilla extract, if using.
Cover and chill – Cover with plastic, pressing down to make sure it stays against the surface of the cream. Let cool at room temperature for 30 minutes, then place in the fridge to chill for 2-4 hours.

Boil water and butter – Bring the water, butter, and salt to a rolling boil over medium heat.
Stir in the flour – Add the flour and turn heat down to medium-low. Stir constantly with a rubber spatula and try to work out any clumps of flour as you go.
Remove from heat – Once the dough forms a ball and all moisture has been absorbed, remove the pan from heat and stir the dough to cool it down.
Add the eggs – After several minutes, add the eggs one at a time, stirring until completely combined after each addition.
Bake – Pipe the dough into mounds on a parchment paper lined baking sheet and bake at 400F for 30 minutes.

Pierce the puffs – Once the puffs have finished baking, remove them from the oven and use a knife to pierce a hole in the side of each. Remember, they will be very hot at this point, so move carefully and quickly and take care not to scorch your fingertips!
Return to the oven – As soon as you’ve pierced each puff, immediately return them to the oven and turn it off. Crack the door and let the puffs sit in the warm oven for another 10 minutes.
Fill and enjoy! Remove the puffs from the oven and let them cool completely before filling with pastry cream (using the holes you made earlier) and dusting with powdered sugar.